h1. Extensions to Existing Ruby Classes

These extensions are loaded early in the application startup and are located here: config/initializers/00_core_extensions.rb

h2. Core Ruby Classes

h3. Hash

Hash is extended with a method: recursive_symbolize_keys which Recursively converts the keys in a Hash to symbols.
It also converts the keys in any Array elements which are Hashes to symbols.

h3. Kernel

Kernel is extended with the method: suppress_warnings

This enables selective supression of warnings from Ruby such as when redefining 
the constant: REST_AUTH_SITE_KEY when running spec tests

See: http://mentalized.net/journal/2010/04/02/suppress_warnings_from_ruby/

h3. String

String is extended with the methods: underscore_module, delete_module(num=1)

h3. Object

Object is extended with the method: @display_name@

@Object#display_name@ calls into @LocalNames.instance#local_name_for@ in @lib/local_names.rb@.
The default behavior for @#display_name@, can be customized by editing @config/local_names.yml@.

The return value for @#display_name@ is determined by evaluating these criterea:
# By default, the method returns a human readable version of an objects class name.
# Class Objects return a readable version of their own name.
# Strings return their value.
# If the object has redefeined "display_name" that value is used.
# If there is an entry for the classname or string literal in @config/local_names.yml@ its replacement value will be used.
##  The @default:@ entry in @config/local_names.yml@  is used by default.
##  A 'theme-spefic' value may be used instead by defining a section in the yaml with your themes name. 

Sample @config/local_names.yml@:
<pre><code>
---
default:
  Portal::Clazz : Class
smartgraphs:
  Portal::Clazz : Study Group
</code></pre>
