h4. Setting up a Hudson CI project

Creating an rvm gemset assuming you are using Ruby 1.8.7 p302:

h5. Install gem prerequisites

First install some of the prerequisite gems not specified in the application.
You will need the development packages installed for mysql, libxml2, and libxslt-devel on the server.

<pre><code>
rvm install ruby-1.8.7-p302
rvm use ruby-1.8.7-p302
rvm gemset create rites
rvm use ruby-1.8.7-p302@rites
gem install rake mysql ruby-debug
</pre></code>

Set the following build environment variable:

<pre><code>
rvm_shell_ruby_string=ruby-1.8.7-p302@rites
</pre></code>

We use the following three build shell scripts in sequence to run the tests:

h5. Setup environment

<pre><code>
export PATH=$PATH:/sbin
ruby config/setup.rb -n Rails Portal -D hudson_rites -u hudson -p <password> -t xproject -y -q -f

# replace the database.yml because the correct names need to be special-cased
echo '
development:
  encoding: utf8
  adapter: <% if RUBY_PLATFORM =~ /java/ %>jdbcmysql<% else %>mysql<% end %>
  username: hudson
  database: hudson_rites
  password: <password>
  pool: 5
itsi:
  encoding: utf8
  adapter: <% if RUBY_PLATFORM =~ /java/ %>jdbcmysql<% else %>mysql<% end %>
  username: hudson
  database: hudson_rites_itsi
  password: <password>
  pool: 5
ccportal:
  encoding: utf8
  adapter: <% if RUBY_PLATFORM =~ /java/ %>jdbcmysql<% else %>mysql<% end %>
  username: hudson
  database: hudson_rites_ccportal
  password: <password>
  pool: 5
test:  &test_settings
  encoding: utf8
  adapter: <% if RUBY_PLATFORM =~ /java/ %>jdbcmysql<% else %>mysql<% end %>
  username: hudson
  database: hudson_rites
  password: <password>
  pool: 5
cucumber:
  <<: *test_settings
' > config/database.yml

# If the gem specifications in: config/environments/test.rb have
# changed install the new gems and uninstall the older versions
# WARNING: this won't work if you are updating a gem that rails has
# already activated -- for example when updating cucumber or capybara. 
# In this case login and install the news gems by hand:
#
#  $ gem update cucumber capybara
#  $ gem cleanup
#
RAILS_ENV=test rake gems:install

</pre></code>

h5. Running Cucumber and RSpec tests

<pre><code>
rm -f rerun.txt
RAILS_ENV=cucumber rake hudson:cucumber --trace


#
# The rake task is not generating both junit and html output
# so run the spec tests manually.
#
# Note, there is a hard-coded path to the ci_reporter
# gem -- will need to be updated if the gem is updated
#
mkdir -p hudson/reports/spec
rm -rf hudson/reports/spec/*
rake db:test:prepare
CI_REPORTS=hudson/reports/spec/ spec --require ${GEM_HOME}/gems/ci_reporter-1.6.0/lib/ci/reporter/rake/rspec_loader --format CI::Reporter::RSpec --format html:hudson/reports/spec/report.html spec
</pre></code>

h5. Cleaaning up

<pre><code>
# to avoid ever climbing disk space needs, rotate the logs
CUR=`pwd`
echo "${CUR}/log/test.log {
  rotate 4
  compress
  notifempty
  missingok
}
${CUR}/log/cucumber.log {
  rotate 4
  compress
  notifempty
  missingok
}
${CUR}/log/development.log {
  rotate 4
  compress
  notifempty
  missingok
}" > logrotate.conf
logrotate -s logrotate.status logrotate.conf
</pre></code>

h5. Post Build Actions

Publish JUnit test result report: @hudson/reports/**/*xml@
Additional test report features: @Publish test attachments@

*Publish HTML reports*

|_.HTML directory to archive|_.Index page[s]|_.Report title|_.Keep past HTML reports|
|hudson/reports/features|report.html|Cucumber Report|true|
|hudson/reports/specs|report.html|RSpec Report|true|

Copy files back to the master: @hudson/reports/**@

h5. Setting up firefox for headless selenium testing

* Hudson is on otto.concord.org
* It uses firefox for selenium testing.
* It uses a headless server called "Xvfb":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xvfb

In order to update the version of firefox on otto, I had to forward X11 packets through ssh.
This wasn't very hard. You can use xclock to ensure that X11 is forwarding OK.
 
For me it was as easy as @ssh -X otto.concord.org@
When you are logged into otto, type @echo $DISPLAY@ and you should see @localhost:10.0@ or something very similar.

Running @clock &@ on otto should start X11 on your mac, and display a clock.

Then you can test firefox out by running @firefox@ from otto.

There are no rpm packages for centos available for FF6, so "download the binary distro":http://3347-mozilla.voxcdn.com/pub/mozilla.org/firefox/releases/6.0.2/linux-i686/en-US/firefox-6.0.2.tar.bz2

* unpacked it into @/usr/local/lib/firefox-6.0.2/@
* symlink the startup script
* uninstall the rpm version of firefox 3


<pre><code>
  wget http://3347-mozilla.voxcdn.com/pub/mozilla.org/firefox/releases/6.0.2/linux-i686/en-US/firefox-6.0.2.tar.bz2bzip2 -d ./firefox-6.0.2.tar.bz2
  tar -xvf ./firefox-6.0.2.tar
  sudo mv ./firefox /usr/local/lib/firefox-6.0.2
  sudo cp /usr/local/lib/firefox-6.0.2/firefox /usr/local/bin/firefox
  #check that it works
  /usr/local/bin/firefox
  sudo yum erase 'firefox'
  sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/firefox /usr/bin/firefox
</code></pre>


h4. Configuring mutliple firefoxes for selenium tests:

h5. MutliFirefoxes 1: profiles
The key here is to create Firefox profiles following the "example here":http://odyniec.net/blog/2010/02/running-multiple-versions-of-firefox-in-ubuntu-9-10/

You will have to create these profiles as the maven user, which might be tricky.

<pre><code>
  firefox -no-remote -CreateProfile ff3
  firefox6 -no-remote -CreatePrfile ff6
</code></pre>

This will results in @~maven/.mozilla/firefox/profiles.ini@ looking  like this:

<pre><code>
  [General]
  StartWithLastProfile=1

  [Profile0]
  Name=ff3
  IsRelative=1
  Path=bjvuhvyg.ff3

  [Profile1]
  Name=ff6
  IsRelative=1
  Path=zo26n413.ff6
</code></pre>

h5. MultiFirefoxes 2: capybara.rb and Hudson configs

You will have to export @SELENIUM_CONFIG=ff6@ in the hudson configuration

contents of @/home/maven/.capybara.rb@:

<pre><code>
require 'selenium-webdriver'
case ENV['SELENIUM_CONFIG']
when 'saucelabs-ie'
    Capybara.server_port = ENV['RAILS_PORT'].to_i
    Capybara.app_host = "http://app#{Capybara.server_port}.test.dev.concord.org"
    selenium_remote :url => "http://ccdev:aebecf9c-b426-44f8-9726-6eb747a7340e@ondemand.sa
ucelabs.com:80/wd/hub",
      :desired_capabilities => Selenium::WebDriver::Remote::Capabilities.internet_explorer
(:platform => "WINDOWS")
when 'ff6'
  puts "----- using Firefox 6 profile ---- "
  Selenium::WebDriver::Firefox.path= '/usr/local/bin/firefox6'
  Capybara.register_driver :selenium do |app|
    Capybara::Selenium::Driver.new(app, :profile => 'ff6')
  end
  
else 
  puts "----- using Firefox 3 profile ---- "
  Selenium::WebDriver::Firefox.path= '/usr/bin/firefox'
  Capybara.register_driver :selenium do |app|
    Capybara::Driver::Selenium.new(app, :profile => 'ff3')
  end
end

</code></pre>
