h1. Probe support

h2. Models

h3. ProbeType 

types of probes like temperature, pressure, ...
contains probe type id used by java sensor library as well as information for graph defaults

h3. VendorInterfaces

interfaces used to connect probes to computer.  A portal user needs to select one of these in order
to use probes. 

h3. PhysicalUnits

h3. DeviceConfigs

h3. DataFilters

h3. Calibrations

h2. Adding new probe types

The root storage location for probe information is in the yaml files located in config/probe_configurations
There are rake tasks for loading this probe information into the database, and saving it back out again.

To add a new probe type you have two options,
# use the UI in the portal to add and edit the probe type, and export the yaml files
# edit the yaml directly

The problem with #1 is that the yaml exporter doesn't keep the ordering of properties when 
it exports them yaml.  So to make a nice changeset that only contains the changes it
is better to edit the yaml directly. 

When editing the yaml directly you need to make sure you to make a new database id for the probe type.
And you'll need a uuid for the probe type too.  After editing the yaml, run this rake task to import it:
<pre><code>rake db:backup:load_probe_configurations</code></pre>

Then you can run this rake task to make or update a test investigation:
<pre><code>rake app:setup:create_probe_testing_investigation</code></pre>
That investigation contains all the registered sensor types and calibrations.

h2. Notes

* a project can enable or disable VendorInterfaces in the project settings

